# ist-dissertation-latex-template
Master dissertation Latex template for [Instituto Superior Técnico](http://tecnico.ulisboa.pt/) (Portugal).
If you are a student in IST and you want to write your dissertation using Latex this can be a good starting point.
This template tries to follow this school's specification that you can get here:
* [Dissertation guidelines](http://da.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/files/sites/33/guia-preparacao-dissertacao-13_14_2.pdf)

I cannot guarantee you that this template is 100% right. I recommend that you talk to your advisors to check it first.
I am not responsible for something going wrong if you choose to use this template.

Focus on your thesis and not on the template.

## Requirements:
* Latex: This will depend on your Operating System. You have to check how to install all Latex packages for your OS.
* Any text editor (I use [Atom](https://atom.io/))
* Latex plugins for your text editor (This is optional but it will make your life easier).
I use the following ones for Atom:
  * [language-latex](https://atom.io/packages/language-latex)
  * [latex](https://atom.io/packages/latex)
  * [latexer](https://atom.io/packages/latexer)

## Usage
To use this template you can just simply fork this repo and start working on it.

If you don't want to fork you can download a zip of the repo.

Once you have a copy of this repo you can
start creating sections, adding bibliography, etc.

### Cover
The cover file (```cover.tex```) has information such as title, supervisors, examination committee, etc. Edit that file According to what makes sense to your disseration.

### Abstract
According to the specification you have to write the abstract in english and portuguese.
The english is located at ```abstract/abstract-en.tex``` and the portuguese ```abstract/abstract-pt.tex```. Just edit those files.

### Acknowledgments
Along the way some people helped you. If you want to show them some love this is the right place for it. Open the file ```acknowledgments/acknowledgments.tex```and start say thanks to everyone.

Anyway, this is optional. If you don't want to have this on your dissertation just comment the include in the ```dissertation.tex``` file:
```latex
...
\begin{document}
\include{cover}

% \input{acknowledgments/acknowledgments.tex}
```

Also, it would be nice if you buy, at least, a beer to whoever supported you :)
(Including the one that provided you this awesome template)

### Chapters
Chapters are located at ```chapters```folder.
To create a new chapter you first need to create a file in this folder. The easiest way to do this is to create a copy of ```chapters/new_chapter_template.tex``` file:
```
$ cp chapters/new_chapter_template.tex chapters/mychapter.tex
```

In the new file change the section's title and label.

Now you just need to include this new chapter in the main file. Open ```disseration.tex``` file and below the comment ```% Chapters``` include your chapter where it makes sense to you
```latex
% Chapters
...
\include{chapters/mysection}
...
```

Now get some inspiration and write its content.

### Images
Image files go to ```images``` directory. Place your files here and include them in wherever makes sense.

### Bibliography
The bibliography is in a bib file located at ```bibliography/dissertation.bib```. Put your bibliography there and cite it anywhere.

### Appendix
Appendix chapters are located at ```appendix```folder.
To create an appendix chapter, create a file in this folder. The easiest way is to copy the ```new_appendix_chapter_template.tex``` file.
```
$ cp appendix/new_appendix_chapter_template.tex appendix/mynewchapter.tex
```

Edit this file to set the chapter's title and create its content.

Now you have to include this new file in the main dissertation file (```disseration.tex```). Open it and include the new chapter's file below the appendix beginning
```latex
% Appendix
\appendix
...
\include{appendix/mynewchapter}
...
```

## Compile
To create the final pdf you have two ways to do it:

### Using the text editor
It depends on the text editor you are using. If you are using atom and the latex plugin you just to press
<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>B</kbd>

### Using the provided scripts
If you have the complete Latex environment installed you can run the ```toPDF.sh``` script to generate the PDF (```dissertation.pdf```):
```
$ sh toPDF.sh
```

To clean all the mess (files generated by the compilation process) you can run ```clean.sh``` script:
```
$ sh clean.sh
```

## Contribute ;)
Thanks to [@mvpgomes](https://github.com/mvpgomes) that started this template and did most of the work. I am just publishing it on github and improving a bit its structure.

If you notice that something is missing you can open a issue and make a pull request.
Feel free to contribute :)
